---
title: "dstack 0.10.3: A preview of Lambda Cloud support"
date: 2023-07-05
description: The new release makes running development environments and tasks in the cloud even easier.
slug: "lambda-cloud-support-preview"
---

# dstack 0.10.3: A preview of Lambda Cloud support

__The latest update adds the initial support for Lambda Cloud.__

`dstack` has two key features. Firstly, it simplifies the running of ML workloads in the cloud.
Secondly, it supports multiple clouds, allowing to stay independent of a particular vendor and reduce
costs. Our latest update represents a significant stride in this direction.

<!-- more -->

## Lambda Cloud

With the 0.10.3 update, `dstack` now allows provisioning infrastructure in Lambda Cloud while storing state and
artifacts in an S3 bucket.

To try the new functionality, you need to install the update and restart the server.

<div class="termy">

```shell
$ pip install "dstack[lambda]" --update
$ dstack start
```

</div>

Once the CLI is updated and the server is restarted, you can configure a Lambda Cloud project.

!!! info "Existing limitations"

    1. Since Lambda Cloud does not have its own object storage, `dstack` requires you to specify an S3 bucket, along with AWS credentials, for storing state and artifacts.
    2. At the moment, there is no possibility to create a Lambda project via the UI. Currently, you can only create a Lambda project through an API request.

See the [Reference](../../docs/reference/backends/lambda.md) for detailed instructions on how to configure a project that uses Lambda Cloud.

## Other changes

In other news, we have updated the base Docker image with the appropriate Conda channel, so you can install the CUDA
tools via `conda` if needed.

Most of the time, you won't need to do this as the base Docker image already comes pre-installed with the essential CUDA tools.

You may only need to install CUDA tools if you plan to build custom CUDA kernels, for example, if you intend to use
libraries such as vLLM, TGI, etc.

Here's an example that demonstrates the pre-installation of vLLM:

<div editor-title=".dstack.yml">

```yaml
type: dev-environment

init:
  - conda install cuda
  - pip install vllm

ide: vscode
```

</div>

The [documentation](../../docs) and [examples](https://github.com/dstackai/dstack-examples/blob/main/README.md)
are updated to reflect the changes.

!!! info "Give it a try and share feedback"
    Go ahead, and install the update, give it a spin, and share your feedback in
    our [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/dstackai/shared_invite/zt-xdnsytie-D4qU9BvJP8vkbkHXdi6clQ).
