---
date: 2024-03-05
description: "The latest update improves the `dstack pool` command and fixes a number of important bugs."
slug: "0.16.1"
---

# dstack 0.16.1: Improvements to `dstack pool` and bug-fixes

The latest update enhances the [`dstack pool`](0.16.0.md) command introduced earlier, 
and it fixes a number of important bugs.

<!-- more -->

## Improvements to `dstack pool`

The `dstack pool` command, that allows you to manually add instances to the pool, 
has received several improvements:

- The `dstack pool add` command now works with all VM-based backends (which means all backends except `vastai`
  and `kubernetes`).
- The `dstack pool add` command now accepts the arguments to configure the spot policy
  (via `--spot-auto`, `--spot`, `--on-demand`) and idle duration (via `--idle-duration DURATION`).
  By default, the spot policy is set to `on-demand`, while the idle duration is set to `72h`.

Didn't try `dstack pool` yet? Give it a try now. It significantly improves the predictability and convenience of using
cloud GPUs.

## Bug-fixes

The major bug-fixes include:

- The `0.16.0` update broke the `vastai` backend (the `dstack run` command didn't show offers). 
- If you submitted runs via the API, the default idle duration was not applied, leading to instances staying in the pool
  and not being automatically removed.
- `dstack` couldn't connect to the instance via SSH due to a number of issues related to not properly handling the user'
  s default SSH config.
- When connecting to a run via `ssh <run name>` (while using the default Docker image), 
  `python`, `pip`, and `conda` couldn't be found due to the broken `PATH`.

All of these issues have been fixed now.

## Feedback

Have questions or need help? Drop us a message on our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/u8SmfwPpMd).
See a bug? Report it to [GitHub issues](https://github.com/dstackai/dstack/issues/new/choose).